<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<section xml:id="PsiReference_Language_IO">
<title>Input and Output</title>

<para>
The <firstterm>file</firstterm><indexterm><primary>file</primary></indexterm>
is a sequence of
<firstterm>characters</firstterm><indexterm><primary>character</primary></indexterm>,
usually the final. The file can be located in the file system or be created on
the fly. Input/output operations are designed for exchange of character data
between files and a program. I/O is the primary means of interaction between a
program and its enviroment.
</para>

<para>
The characters identified with the integers on the range
from <constant>0</constant> to <constant>8589934591</constant> in accordance
with the universal character set <acronym>UCS-4</acronym>. At the physical
level, data in a file are represented as a sequence of bytes (octets). Some
transformation that turns a sequence of octets into a sequence of characters
(encoding) or vice versa (decoding) may be performed during I/O.
</para>

<para>
On input of character data a file is considered as a source of characters, on
output as a consumer. It is possible to input or output both individual
characters and strings.
</para>

<section xml:id="PsiReference_Language_IO_BasicOperators">
<title>Основные операторы ввода/вывода</title>

<para>
Operators <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_read"/> and <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_write"/>,
respectively read from a file or write from a file one character.
</para>

<para>
Operators <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_readstring"/> and <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_writestring"/>,
respectively read from a file or write to a file a character string. The <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_readline"/>
operator read from a file a string terminated by the platform-specific line
terminator. Terminator himself is available in the system dictionary by the
name <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_eol"/>.
</para>

</section>

</section>
