<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<section xml:id="PsiReference_Language_MultipleContextExecution">
<title>Multiple Context Execution</title>

<para>
The Ψ language has support for asynchronous <firstterm>execution
contexts</firstterm><indexterm><primary>execution
context</primary></indexterm>. The execution context is a separate interpreter
instance.
</para>

<para>
Each context creates an environment for executing program, consisting of
stacks. Different contexts share the common dictionary stack. The rest of the
stacks (operand stack, execution stack, auxiliary stacks) are private and can
not be seen outside their context.
</para>

<para>
The main context is created for the execution of the program. The program can
create additional contexts, executing the <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_fork"/> operator.
</para>

<section xml:id="PsiReference_Language_MultipleContextExecution_Creation">
<title>Creating Contexts</title>

<para>
The <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_fork"/> operator returns a new context.
One of the <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_fork"/> operands is a procedure that is
executed in the new context, and the remaining operands are used to initialize
the operand stack in a new context.
</para>

<para>
The <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_join"/> operator waits for the
completion of the procedure being executed in the context previously created by
the <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_fork"/> operator, and then copies the
contents of the operand stack to the operand stack of the context that invoked
<xref xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsiReference_Operators_Details_join"/>.
</para>

</section>

<section xml:id="PsiReference_Language_MultipleContextExecution_Operators">
<title>Context Operators</title>

</section>

<section xml:id="PsiReference_Language_MultipleContextExecution_Synchronization">
<title>Context Synchronization</title>

</section>

</section>
