<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_IO">
<title>Input and Output</title>

<para>
A <firstterm>file</firstterm><indexterm><primary>file</primary></indexterm> is
a sequence of
<firstterm>characters</firstterm><indexterm><primary>character</primary></indexterm>,
usually the final. The file can be located in the file system or be created on
the fly. Input/output operations are designed for exchange of character data
between files and a program. I/O is the primary means of interaction between
a program and its enviroment.
</para>

<para>
The characters identified with the integers on the range from <math
xmlns="&nsMathML;"><mn>0</mn></math> to <math
xmlns="&nsMathML;"><mn>8589934591</mn></math> in accordance with the universal
character set <acronym>UCS-4</acronym>. At the physical level, data in a file
are represented as a sequence of bytes (octets). Some transformation that turns
a sequence of octets into a sequence of characters (encoding) or vice versa
(decoding) may be performed during I/O.
</para>

<para>
On input of character data a file is considered as a source of characters, on
output as a consumer. It is possible to input or output both individual
characters and strings.
</para>

<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_IO_BasicOperators">
<title>Basic Input/Output Operators</title>

<para>
Operators <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_read"/> and <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_write"/>,
respectively read from a file or write to a file one character.
</para>

<para>
Operators <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_readstring"/> and <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_writestring"/>
respectively read from a file or write to a file a character string. The <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_readline"/>
operator read from a file a string terminated by the platform-specific line
terminator. Terminator itself is available in the system dictionary by the
name <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_eol"/>.
</para>

<para>
When performing output operations, the output characters can be
<firstterm>buffered</firstterm><indexterm><primary>I/O</primary><secondary>buffering</secondary></indexterm>
for efficiency instead of being immediately sent to physical media. The <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_flush"/>
operator immediately sends the buffered data to the media.
</para>

</section>

<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_IO_Standard">
<title>Standard Input/Output</title>

<para>
The program environment provides standard files for input and output. Data
written to <firstterm>standard
output</firstterm><indexterm><primary>standard</primary><secondary>output</secondary></indexterm>
or <firstterm>standard
error</firstterm><indexterm><primary>standard</primary><secondary>error</secondary></indexterm>
are sent to the terminal screen. The data entered by the user can be read by
the program from the <firstterm>standard
input</firstterm><indexterm><primary>standard</primary><secondary>input</secondary></indexterm>.
</para>

<para>
Files representing standard input, output, and error message output are
available in the system dictionary under the names <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_stdin"/>,
<xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_stdout"/>, and <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_stderr"/>,
respectively.
</para>

<para>
The <xref xrefstyle="template:%t"
linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_print"/> and <xref
xrefstyle="template:%t" linkend="PsyllaReference_Operators_Details_warn"/>
operators send the specified string to standard output and standard error,
respectively.
</para>

<para>
<firstterm>Redirection</firstterm><indexterm><primary>I/O</primary><secondary>redirection</secondary></indexterm>
of standard input and output by means of the operating system is possible.
</para>


</section>

</section>
