<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_Stacks">
<title>Stacks</title>

<para>
The Psylla interpreter supports several stacks intended to store data during
the program execution or represent the program execution state. Three of them
are essential: the <firstterm>operand
stack</firstterm><indexterm><primary>operand stack</primary></indexterm>, the
<firstterm>dictionary stack</firstterm><indexterm><primary>dictionary
stack</primary></indexterm> and the <firstterm>execution
stack</firstterm><indexterm><primary>execution stack</primary></indexterm>.
</para>

<para>
Each of the stacks is arranged according to the <acronym>LIFO</acronym>
principle: Last In—First Out.
</para>

<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_Stacks_OperandStack">
<title>Operand Stack</title>

<para>
Execution of literal objects always leads to add to the operand stack. If the
operator needs the data to handle, it remove the necesser number of objects
from the operand stack. The objects created by the operator are added to the stack.
This is how most language operators work. Thus, both the interpreter and any of
the operators can freely manipulate the operand stack.
</para>

</section>

<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_Stacks_DictionaryStack">
<title>Dictionary Stack</title>

<para>
The dictionary stack can store only dictionaries. The current stack of the
dictionary stack serves as a context of search for objects by name. The need
for such a search occurs every time the interpreter encounters a command. There
are several operators to manipulate the dictionary stack.
</para>

</section>

<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_Stacks_ExecutionStack">
<title>Execution Stack</title>

<para>
The execution stack reflects the execution phase of the procedure. During
execution of the procedure its elements are loaded onto the execution stack in
reverse order, so that the very first element is at the top of the stack. The
interpreter then in turn removes objects from the execution stack and executes
them until the stack level is equal to the original (that was at the beginning
of the procedure execution).
</para>

<para>
The execution stack may be controlled by the interpreter. Only a few operators
directly operating the execution stack. This is control operators that
implement cycles.
</para>

</section>

<section xml:id="PsyllaReference_Language_Stacks_Auxiliary">
<title>Auxiliary Stacks</title>

<para>
In addition to three main stacks, there are several auxiliary stacks built into
the interpreter: <firstterm>exit stack</firstterm><indexterm><primary>exit
stack</primary></indexterm> and <firstterm>stop
stack</firstterm><indexterm><primary>stop stack</primary></indexterm>. Only a
few control operators operate on auxiliary stacks.
</para>

</section>

</section>
